\paragraph{Implicit Environment Represenations for trajectory generation}

\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \input{src/24-spahn-ral/img/methods/inkscape/spectrum_tex.pdf_tex}
  \caption{Different levels of implicitness for environment representations.}
  \label{fig:ral24_overview}
\end{figure}

While \ac{fabrics} mainly focus on explicit environment
representation \cite{Spahn2023,Ratliff2020}, new \ac{tg}
methods lean towards implicit approaches. For \ac{tg} using
short-term optimization, unoccupied space constraints limit
robot movement, proven useful for mobile manipulators in
cluttered areas \cite{Spahn2021}. In drone flight, a similar
concept generates safe flight zones along a global path
\cite{Liu2017a,Tordesillas2019a}. In the context of drone
flying, \ac{sdf} has been utilized with \ac{mpc} in unknown
environments \cite{Oleynikova2017voxblox}. Raw lidar data
has been used in combination with \acp{rmp} showing
impressively high frequencies when computation is parallized
on GPU \cite{Pantic2023obstacle}. Recent advances in
sampling-based \ac{mpc}, utilizing physics engines for
collision avoidance \cite{Pezzato2023sampling}, integrate
obstacle collisions in cost functions during trajectory
rollouts. A similar approach is seen in
\cite{Sundaralingam2023curobo}.

All previous works focus on implicit environment
representations. However, most of these methods still
require manual robot representation, like composing spheres.
On that end, some exploration of more implicit
characterizations, such as learned \ac{sdf} like in
\cite{Liu2022regularized,Koptev2023neural}, is underway.
